How to get the index files required to run the Astrometry.net code

1. Preamble

One of the goals of the Astrometry.net project is to "organize,
annotate and make searchable all the world's astronomical
information."

We have put a lot of effort into building our solver, and we want to
distribute the source code and the data files that make it tick. Our
project is all about making data accessible, and if we want to become
a central part of astronomical data processing and storage, then our
system must be transparent.  Also, by releasing our source code we
hope to unleash the creative power of our users, who will adapt and
extend it to their own purposes, doing things we haven't even thought
about.

We want our code to be open.  However, we want to avoid a situation in
which people use our code in ways that don't lead to data becoming
more accessible.

Our code is distributed under the GPL, and we won't impose additional
conditions on its use or distribution.  However, we are also
distributing data files that are required to run the solver, so we are
applying conditions on the distribution of these files.

2. Conditions

Astrometry.net are making available a set of data files ("indices") under
the following conditions:

 * Because the indices represent a re-release of data originally
   originating in the USNO-B Catalog, the indices may not be used for
   any commercial purpose whatsoever.

 * If the indices are used to provide a web service, then each web
   page that makes use of the results must include the following text:
   "This service uses the Astrometry.net solver.  For more details
   visit http://astrometry.net/ ."

 * If the indices are used to provide a web service, then any
   astronomical images solved using the indices must be made available
   to the Astrometry.net team, and to any other interested party.  The
   image files may be made accessible by providing a list of URLs, or
   by giving access to or sending physical media.

 * If the indices are used in any scholarly work, the Astrometry.net
   project must be properly cited and acknowledged.  The paper to cite
   is the Lang et al paper on our bibliography page
   http://astrometry.net/biblio.html .  The acknowledgement text is
   "This research made use of tools provided by Astrometry.net."

 * Redistribution of the indices or information sufficient to obtain
   the indices is not permitted.

3. Obtaining the indices

Send an email to code@astrometry.net stating clearly your intended use
of the indices, and stating explicitly that you have read and agreed to
the conditions in this text file.  We will return to you information
required to obtain the indices.  That information may not be
redistributed, as noted in the conditions above.

